---
date: 2022-10-17 02:06:30 -0000
image: https://images.squarespace-cdn.com/content/v1/61f89bfb44639202f687ae25/fe0a8d30-4612-43b3-a204-17703b5a66ff/IMG_2713.jpg?format=1500w
layout: story
source_feed: https://www.nzpi.nz/news?format=rss
source_name: News - New Zealand Penguin Initiative
source_url: https://www.nzpi.nz/news/nzpi-visits-waiheke-island
summary: NZPI met different groups in Waiheke Island very keen on protecting their
  local kororā population.
title: NZPI visits Waiheke Island
---

Andrea and Hiltrun recently visited Waiheke Island to talk about kororā with locals and to see if NZPI could support their conservation efforts. We were fabulously hosted and taxi’ed about by Helen from the Tin Tui Studio – a wonderful B&amp;B place surrounded by bush with a fantastic breakfast. <figure class=" sqs-block-image-figure image-block-outer-wrapper image-block-v2 design-layout-collage combination-animation-site-default individual-animation-site-default individual-text-animation-site-default image-position-left "> Sign made by a local in Pūtiki Bay, Waiheke Island. During our visit to the island, we were able to see and hear about the challenges kororā are facing. Pūtiki Bay, near the car ferry terminal, has seen epic battles between locals wanting to protect kororā and a marina developer who received consent to put in not only 180 yacht berths but also a floating carpark, café, and amenities, right next to the breakwater where kororā live and breed. The developer won the battle, but locals remain worried about the impact of the construction noise on the kororā breeding there now. While there, we heard the chicks chirping and evidence of kororā occupying the area despite the extensive construction surrounding them.We met with Karen Saunders of Native Bird Rescue who showed us her fantastic facilities to rehabilitate native birds including kororā – they even have a swimming pool! She shared with us the challenges that kororā face, in particular starvation, but also displacement from under people’s houses. Karen and Helen are crafting a plan to help locals learn to live with the penguins and share their property with them rather than evicting them from under their houses. What a great idea! <figure class=" sqs-block-image-figure intrinsic "> Hiltrun (NZPI), Helen (local and Native Bird Rescue volunteer), Karen Saunders (Native Bird Rescue) and Andrea (NZPI) We also met with Sue and Carys from the Waiheke Marine Project, who are concerned about the marine environment in the Hauraki Gulf in general and Waiheke Island in particular, and how changes to the marine ecosystem affects species like kororā. It was delightful to meet them and hear their stories.We hope we can help and support their efforts as well.On the final night, we met with Bianca Ranson and Rangi, two locals who work hard for all Waiheke Island inhabitants including kororā. We look forward to keeping in touch to see how we can contribute to a better future for penguins and all wildlife on Waiheke Island. <a class=" image-slide-anchor content-fill "> <a class=" image-slide-anchor content-fill ">