---
date: 2025-05-29 18:23:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiFd0kJTwIpHyLw5nYlLGwCk7Omor4AeSgD8Nk_bqS_DBmfTIFTF3-2ga_GsFhLUFGlHZ3T-MqqyTC9vADhiXD4TaoVVbhLhXaaikg4-cvpz2pN_4OhHz1fFyf1poDuB8bvp28a5A97M4qnzIgwetshTxd-haS23LWfb51I79-wZQyjwEUtohW5NHf4trc/s72-w426-h640-c/RS50468_2025_05_27%20misc-3.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2025/05/llamas-and-porcupines-welcomed-to.html
summary: Posted by Farrah Paul, CommunicationsPhotos by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooWoodland Park Zoo has welcomed a trio of llamas and six African crested
  porcupines. The animals were seized as part of a suspected neglect case in Oregon
  and are receiving housing and care at Woodland Park Zoo while that case is...
title: Llamas and Porcupines Welcomed to Woodland Park Zoo after being seized by Oregon
  officials in suspected animal neglect case
---

Posted by Farrah Paul, CommunicationsPhotos by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWoodland Park Zoo has welcomed a trio of llamas and six African crested porcupines. The animals were seized as part of a suspected neglect case in Oregon and are receiving housing and care at Woodland Park Zoo while that case is ongoing. As is standard with any new animals arriving at the zoo, the llamas and porcupines are under veterinary observation and quarantine.The three llamas are spending time quarantining together in a grassy yard near the Wildlife Theater. Guests may catch a glimpse from the Main Loop Path! The six African crested porcupines are quarantining together in an off-view area. It has yet to be determined if or when they will be moved into a publicly-visible habitat.Two Woodland Park Zoo Animal Care team staff made two trips to Oregon to pick up the llamas and porcupines. They also assisted Oregon officials in safely catching and loading additional animals destined for other care facilities.The zoo is providing temporary housing to the llamas and porcupines while the case involving them moves forward. Their permanent home will be determined depending on the resolution of the case.How did Woodland Park Zoo get involved in an Oregon case?Woodland Park Zoo is an accredited member of the Association of Zoos &amp; Aquariums (AZA), which accredits only organizations that meet the highest standards in animal care and wellbeing. In 2017, the zoo joined AZA’s Wildlife Trafficking Alliance to work alongside a coalition of more than 90 partners to reduce, and hopefully eventually eliminate, the illegal trade of wildlife.In 2024, Woodland Park Zoo joined a new and growing partnership, the Wildlife Confiscation Network. The Wildlife Confiscation Network was created by AZA to support U.S. Fish &amp; Wildlife and other federal agencies who intercept and seize wildlife being trafficked across borders and through U.S. ports of entry. Network members are reputable and trusted animal care facilities who can provide immediate housing and medical care for confiscated, trafficked animals.Last week, Woodland Park Zoo endorsed bipartisan H.R. 3538, the Wildlife Confiscations Network Act of 2025, which would codify the Network as it expands nationally. You can learn more here and ask your U.S. Representative to cosponsor this legislation by sending an action alert: https://www.votervoice.net/AZA/Campaigns/126327/Respond“Advocacy for animals and providing unparalleled care is core to accomplishing our conservation mission to save wildlife. It is imperative that we take an active role in fighting against wildlife trafficking. Being part of the Wildlife Confiscation Network is an opportunity for us to share our vast veterinary, animal care and facilities expertise and to ensure that all animals who come into our care have an opportunity to have safe and enriched lives,” said Woodland Park Zoo Chief Zoological Officer Roger Sweeney.Woodland Park Zoo has been called upon by the Wildlife Confiscation Network several times in the past few months to provide urgent housing and care for dozens of animals that have been seized in wildlife trafficking cases. Due to the confidential nature of these seizures, many of them part of ongoing criminal cases, the zoo has not published or shared details of those animals.The Wildlife Confiscation Network was established as a formal cooperative agreement between AZA and U.S. Fish &amp; Wildlife, and the existence of the Network is now recognized by many local, regional and national law enforcement and animal welfare organizations. While not official members of the Network, some agencies have reached out with requests for support in large seizure cases.The current case is an example of a request to the Wildlife Confiscation Network from an agency that is not part of the formal agreement but still resulted in a highly coordinated partnership.For the llamas and African crested porcupines now residing at Woodland Park Zoo, officials from Oregon Department of Agriculture (State Veterinarian) contacted the Wildlife Confiscation Network. To learn about the ongoing case, please see Oregon Humane Society’s blog here: Investigation at West Coast Game Park Safari - Oregon Humane Society.