---
date: 2025-08-30 17:01:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgsQVYZdmAe_bCydTQwdDTszuiLXUN0yZId7qghzN4PYc6-4dKEf_0GScTQR293AQ5yvkqd6DgaI61LhZiyMT90yNT3umHKlga50RVoAFuQ8HzjTZaDDlfYPj4qHCe7zjQokhq991PehzJxuRlW-kIO5hscJwrtSKlavr6-vahuHVXz2BeucdUnDBetNNQ/s72-w640-h426-c/RS51383_2025_08_28%20crested%20porcupine-14.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2025/08/african-porcupines-and-porcupettes-are.html
summary: Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren, Woodland
  Park ZooHello, prickly friends!Bristles aside, zoo-goers can encounter from a safe
  distance a “prickle” of African crested porcupines at Woodland Park Zoo in the African
  Savanna’s former hippo habitat. A group of porcupines is known as a prickle!The
  porcupines were seized...
title: African porcupines (and porcupettes) are keeping zoo busy
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren, Woodland Park ZooHello, prickly friends!Bristles aside, zoo-goers can encounter from a safe distance a “prickle” of African crested porcupines at Woodland Park Zoo in the African Savanna’s former hippo habitat. A group of porcupines is known as a prickle!The porcupines were seized as part of a suspected neglect case in Oregon and are receiving housing and care at Woodland Park Zoo while that case is ongoing. While being housed at the zoo since the end of May, the prickle has multiplied with the birth of a pair of porcupettes (baby porcupines) born on July 24. These prickly cuties were seized as part of a suspected neglect case and are receiving housing and dedicated care at Woodland Park Zoo while that case is ongoing.“While performing a morning routine for the porcupines, including checking on, feeding and cleaning the den, a member of the animal care team came upon the two baby porcupines, known as porcupettes. It was a nice surprise to discover little, soft quills moving about,” said Martin Ramirez, a Mammal Curator at Woodland Park Zoo. Renovations were made to the habitat that once housed hippos such as changes to the pool and adding fencing and shelter to ensure the safety and well-being of the porcupines. A few adults may be seen in the renovated habitat while the parents care for their young in a non-viewable area until they grow bigger. The African crested porcupine is one of the world's biggest rodents! Adults can be 30-35 inches long and weigh more than 60 pounds.As an accredited member of the Association of Zoos &amp; Aquariums (AZA), which accredits only organizations that meet the highest standards in animal care and wellbeing, Woodland Park Zoo joined AZA’s Wildlife Trafficking Alliance in 2017 to work alongside a coalition of more than 90 partners to reduce, and hopefully eventually eliminate, the illegal trade of wildlife. Last year, the zoo joined a new and growing partnership, the Wildlife Confiscation Network, created by AZA to support U.S. Fish &amp; Wildlife Service and other federal agencies who intercept and seize wildlife being trafficked across borders and through U.S. ports of entry. Network members are reputable and trusted animal care facilities who can provide immediate housing and medical care for confiscated trafficked animals.The group of porcupines (known as a prickle) can be seen in the former hippo habitat in the zoo's&nbsp;African Savanna area.The 4.5-acre African Savanna allows zoo visitors to view a community of species found in the dry grasslands of Africa including giraffe, Plain’s zebra, Grant’s gazelle, patas monkeys, and Egyptian geese, as well as separate habitats for African lion and warthogs.Prickly Facts The body of an African crested porcupine is covered with coarse, sharp quills that range from 1 to 13 inches long.&nbsp;The African crested porcupine is one of the world’s biggest rodents! Adults can be 30 to 35 inches long and weigh more than 60 pounds!&nbsp;When threatened, how do they warn not to come any closer? They will stamp their feet and make a rattling sound with their quills—back off! &nbsp;