---
date: 2025-09-24 19:08:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEglq7qiD7k47Q-Bt-jm7CZ6VJLj50UQMQMN7WAR2Nq0RjDNBHM_0HxJQmt0rI0mg8D_dgRYZALy77ujB46tMQKJbqzpWVCc68XHNMQyijpYDvjNGDGG3h6myrsvRx53M2jgXaZsmYJJf756aUtn7Lia150y8d3Z1SZljPiah5xfu5lfuGzo3JnNHv1juJQ/s72-w426-h640-c/RS46752_2024_05%20May%20misc-21.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2025/09/catching-up-with-nadaya-and-females-in.html
summary: 'Posted by Elizabeth Bacher, CommunicationsHandsome Nadaya! Photo: Jeremy
  Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooDo you know silverback gorilla Nadaya and the three
  females—Jamani, Jumoke and Olympia—that make up his western lowland gorilla family?
  If you don’t, you should! They may not be as active as Kwame and his family because
  they don’t have...'
title: Catching up with Nadaya and the females in his gorilla group—Jamani, Jumoke
  and Olympia.
---

Posted by Elizabeth Bacher, CommunicationsHandsome Nadaya! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooDo you know silverback gorilla Nadaya and the three females—Jamani, Jumoke and Olympia—that make up his western lowland gorilla family? If you don’t, you should! They may not be as active as Kwame and his family because they don’t have youngsters running around (at least not yet ... more on that later) but the animal keepers tell us this group is one of the most cohesive gorilla groups they’ve ever known, in part because all of them “click” and genuinely seem to like being with each other. Nadaya, who is 24 years old, is a wonderful silverback—a relaxed, calm and mature leader. He is responsible for maintaining a calm and secure atmosphere for his group of females and restoring peace and balance if and when there should be any disagreements between them. He doesn’t like to be without his females for any length of time and seems genuinely determined to be a steady and protective presence for his group. This is exactly what a silverback is supposed to do.Nadaya can be serious, but has a lighter side too. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooNadaya can be serious at times but definitely has a lighter side too. For starters, some of his “likes” are very specific and quite endearing. One of them is that he likes to sit on things (as opposed to sitting on the ground). It might be a hammock or even a rubber tub which he likes to both sit on top of or flip over to sit inside it. He also likes to prop his feet up and relax with legs crossed at the ankles. You may see him doing this as he reclines for a nap in the habitat with his feet up on the wall—it's a very “Nadaya” pose. Alternatives to hammocks and tubs include other objects like blankets and wood wool (thin, spongy, shredded wood shavings). Nadaya loves blankets and will spread them out in the outdoor shelter area to sit or lie down on. Or, if it's sunny outside, he may throw a blanket on his back and carry it out to the yard or to the top of the hill so he can spread it out there. He also likes to make his own “shoes” by holding wads of wood wool in his feet as he walks around in the exhibit. The gorilla keepers later find these clumps of wood wool when they clean the yard in the morning—sort of a version of picking Nadya’s shoes that he left out.Nadaya likes sitting on wood wool and grabbing wads of it with his feet to walk on—like shoes! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe keepers tell us Nadaya seems to have a bit of a sense of humor too. Much like that friend who loves saying “boo” to scare you and get a reaction, Nadaya seems to enjoy when he can catch the gorilla keepers “off guard” by suddenly making a loud noise, like a bang on the wall. He appears to quite relish the reactions he gets from that. Hierarchy and dominance are a normal part of gorilla group structure, and where each individual falls within that structure is fluid and can change with different situations. The silverback is generally at the top, with females and youngsters finding their place under his watchful eye and protection. Right now, Olympia and Jumoke are the more dominant females while Jamani, who happens to be the youngest of the three at 25, tends to show deference to them.Jumoke, who at 40 is the oldest of the females in this group, is Nadaya's favorite. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooJumoke, who turned 40 in May, is very socially savvy and has a great relationship with Nadaya. From the first time she met him (he came to Woodland Park Zoo in 2022 after her former companion Vip died in 2021), she has shown Nadaya proper respect, letting him know that he is a strong, capable silverback and not challenging him. Her ability to “flatter” and appease him is key to her “favorite” status within the group and is likely one of the reasons why he will back her up if the other females were to gang up on her. Jumoke also gets along well with the females in her group—so long as everyone respects the hierarchy. Being one of the more dominant ones, she will occasionally threat-grunt to the other females as a “reminder” of her status—especially if Jamani and Olympia, who knew each other for many years before they came to Woodland Park Zoo together in 2022, are in cahoots. Since Jamani is more conflict-averse, this doesn’t happen often unless Jumoke challenges Olympia, in which case Jamani will back her long-time friend. Beautiful Olympia may be small in stature, but has a large personality. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park Zoo&nbsp;Olympia, who is 29 years old, is the smallest of the females in stature, but her personality is large! The gorilla keepers describe her as dominant, confident and persistent. When she was first introduced to Nadaya in 2022, she may have been a little too persistent and forward for his liking. Perhaps it came across as being a bit needy. But since then, she has “softened” her approach to getting his attention and their relationship—along with her confidence—has blossomed. At 25, Jamani is the youngest of the females in this group. Those of you who remember Pete and Nina from many decades ago (they were the foundation of Woodland Park Zoo’s gorilla program) may be interested to know that Jamani, who was born in San Diego, is their great-granddaughter! The gorilla keepers describe her as quiet, laid back and respectful.Jamani, sitting next to Nadaya, is the youngest of the females in this group. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWhile she and the others in her group are not related by blood (except for Jumoke who is Jamani’s aunt, although it’s unlikely either of them is aware of the connection), they operate as a family group. At the end of the day, even though they all have access to separate bedrooms in their indoor sleeping quarters, Nadaya and all three females usually prefer to stay in the same room together through the night. This is a group that does not like to be separated from one another. When it comes to mealtime, however, that can be different. Some of their food is offered behind the scenes, which provides important opportunities for daily training sessions between each gorilla and the gorilla keepers. These voluntary sessions enable our expert animal care staff to spend one-on-one time with each member of our gorilla family to make sure that everyone is healthy and getting their share of food along with any needed vitamins or medications. These sessions not only reinforce the trusting bonds between the gorillas and our dedicated keepers, but they also allow each gorilla to enjoy their favorite treats in relative “peace” without having to compete with other family members. Jumoke and her group love browse—the leaves, bark, stems and flowers eaten right off the tree or bush. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooAs for favorite foods, Nadaya’s group shares similar tastes—literally. All except Jumoke like yogurt, and all of them are quite fond of grapes, peanuts and other fruits. This group loves their browse too—meaning the leaves, bark, stems and flowers eaten right off the tree or bush. Our animal keepers and horticulture team tell us they eat more of the bushes in the exhibit than any other group of gorillas has—past or present!Being in their 20s, Jamani and Olympia are both in the prime of life and are both experienced mothers. They each gave birth just weeks apart 13 years ago and raised their sons together at North Carolina Zoo where they used to live. By the time young male gorillas are around 10 years old, it is normal and healthy for them to crave independence and leave their birth families—in part because a sexually mature male will instinctively seek out unrelated breeding partners. Jamani’s and Olympia’s sons are both young adults now, but that doesn’t mean that the “parenthood years” are behind these two females. Jamani Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe Western Lowland Gorilla Species Survival Plan—a cooperative breeding program across accredited zoos to help ensure healthy, self-sustaining populations of threatened and endangered species—has issued breeding recommendations for both Jamani and Olympia with Nadaya. A good genetic match is important for the long-term survival of the population and the health of each individual within it, but these recommendations can only go so far if the gorillas don’t “like” each other. But that’s not an issue here. As we’ve established, Nadaya and his females are a close, cohesive and healthy group. While parenthood is not new for Jamani or Olympia, the same can’t be said of Nadaya. He has not had offspring before, and while being around a busy, active multigenerational family will not be entirely unfamiliar (he was still living with his mother when his siblings were born), being a dad will be a new role for him. But the gorilla keepers say that Nadaya’s bond with his females (in addition to a new mother gorilla’s instinct to stick close to her baby’s father) suggests that being protective of them and their babies would come naturally to him—just as it does for most silverbacks in the wild. And that, coupled with his previous experience with gorilla family dynamics, means that the keepers expect Nadaya will be a great dad!Jamani and Olympia are both experienced mothers and each of them may have motherhood in their future again. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooFemale western lowland gorillas have an approximate 28-day menstrual cycle much like humans do. The gorilla keepers can track Jamani’s and Olympia’s cycles and both of them have been trained to urinate into a PVC pipe—so when the time comes, the keepers will be able to use a human home pregnancy test with the gorillas’ urine to confirm a pregnancy, estimate a probable due date and be as ready as possible for a new baby. There’s nothing to announce just yet. But we promise to keep you posted on any exciting developments, and it is possible that by next summer there could be one or even two new additions to Nadaya’s family group. Until then, we hope you will enjoy seeing Nadaya, Jamani, Olympia and Jumoke together—and we hope you’ll join us in taking action to help protect and save gorillas in the wild. For more on Kwame and his family, you can take a peek at our last gorilla blog by clicking the link here.&nbsp;Help gorillas in their natural range Every visit to Woodland Park Zoo supports conservation of animals in the wild. Join the zoo by recycling old cell phones and other used handheld electronics through ECO-CELL to help preserve gorilla habitat. Funds generated from ECO-CELL support our conservation partner in the Congo Basin, the Goualougo Triangle Ape Project.We work with ECO-CELL to offer a place where you can recycle your old cell phones and other handheld devices to help save gorillas! Photo: Elizabeth Bacher/Woodland Park ZooBecome a ZooParent! ZooParent adoptions help the zoo provide exceptional care for all of Woodland Park Zoo's amazing animals and support wildlife conservation efforts in the Pacific Northwest and around the world. Consider becoming a monthly donor Making a monthly gift in any amount helps save endangered species here in the Pacific Northwest and around the globe. zoo.org/givemonthly Editor's Note: We offer big thanks and appreciation to the dedicated gorilla keepers and animal care team members who contributed so many rich details to this story!&nbsp;