---
date: 2025-12-05 19:28:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiAYoq9c4wG3iKyDgyB2SVa1PrTyUTdtgbrdLKGzH4W72Qkiiss5rCN1JR_9SfMzKuUfZaEUxo649p-Dqp3r9eQ_Dd6UIavZB_DrfmUq7tAgcaoRjNMCoZQ3W-hokkfeSoIfUnbTzw4yLqaLoeFajtfAiQyXzHSuyd3qA59aVaWZ0SpbFM2__zE15kj8C0/s72-w640-h426-c/RS51848_2025_10_29%20penguin%20therapy%20exam-2.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2025/12/massage-acupressure-and-laser-therapy.html
summary: 'Posted by Elizabeth Bacher, CommunicationsEditor’s note: Big thanks and
  appreciation to Woodland Park Zoo Veterinary Technicians Barb Brush and Leah Miyamoto
  for sharing the important work they do!Woodland Park Zoo’s mission to inspire conservation
  and save wildlife begins, in part, with the health and wellness of all the species
  and...'
title: Massage, acupressure and laser therapy ... oh my!
---

Posted by Elizabeth Bacher, CommunicationsEditor’s note: Big thanks and appreciation to Woodland Park Zoo Veterinary Technicians Barb Brush and Leah Miyamoto for sharing the important work they do!Woodland Park Zoo’s mission to inspire conservation and save wildlife begins, in part, with the health and wellness of all the species and individual animals that call our zoo home. Providing top notch veterinary care is more than just diagnosing illness and treating injuries. It also includes promoting wellness and providing treatment options and preventative health care so that all our animals—from a newborn gorilla to a geriatric penguin—have the opportunity to thrive!Physical therapy can include laser and massage. A blue laser light helps fight infection and a red laser, seen here on 25-year-old Humboldt penguin Pupito, promotes tissue healing. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooFor nearly two decades, a dedicated team of our skilled veterinary technicians has been providing various types of physical therapy for rehabilitation and maintenance to a wide variety of mammals, birds and reptiles at Woodland Park Zoo. This includes massage, acupressure and several different modalities of laser therapy including PEMF—which is short for Pulsed Electromagnetic Field. It uses electromagnetic waves to stimulate cellular repair and regeneration at a deep, systemic level. During the treatment, veterinary technician Leah provides gentle pats to a&nbsp;very relaxed&nbsp;Pupito! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThese treatment options can provide pain relief and promote healing from ailments ranging from sprains and strains to age-related stiffness and soreness which can cause both discomfort and decreased range of motion. These sessions are completely voluntary on the part of the animals. They are meant to be comfortable and can even be enjoyable, with some individuals “leaning in” for extra attention, scratches, pats and/or treats from their caregivers. That means our animals can choose to take part in their own healthcare without the need for restraints, anesthesia or stress. Skilled veterinary technicians, like Barb and Leah, have standing physical therapy appointments—with treatments like laser and massage—with many of our animals, including goats Snowberry and Samson and penguins Pupito and Radar.Senior Veterinary Technician Barb, offers laser therapy and some massage to kinder goat, Samson, while he enjoys a snack from the hands of Woodland Park Zoo Animal Keeper, Nick. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe red laser promotes tissue healing. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooHow Laser Therapy Works Stimulates Cells: Light waves penetrate skin and tissues, activating cells to promote healing. Reduces Inflammation: Helps decrease inflammation in muscles and joints. Increases Circulation: Improves blood flow to affected areas.Promotes Healing: Accelerates the repair of wounds and damaged tissues.The Tools of the TradePhoto: Elizabeth Bacher/Woodland Park ZooPEMF—which is short for Pulsed Electromagnetic Field—is a therapeutic laser device used in conjunction with a special loop (seen here) or pad that helps direct the laser’s microcurrent of electromagnetic signals to the right spot. Photo: Elizabeth Bacher/Woodland Park ZooBenefits of Laser Therapy Pain Relief: Especially effective for arthritis and joint pain in older animals. Faster Healing: Speeds up recovery from wounds and surgical sites. Improved Mobility: Helps animals with chronic conditions move more comfortably. Non-invasive: A gentle and comforting treatment, often performed with cooperative training.In the days after physical therapy, animal keepers will report back to Animal Health staff with their observations—often positive news that their patients seem to be feeling better and moving with more ease. It’s a win-win for everyone!