---
date: 2025-10-03 00:07:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEh2gw274XW-IfkfYqtcTSHTtMiUIOVQEy_1_YXldHfEU0kIh65aMz_nek1__-ZxIUT7uDcBV-WKPH5kZl8ZXt3gq6tgi6PwP4XHuRl3r01wjDqHyPviZzZANmL9kOrkp6lwil7BvoMrBuEY_3WhOjmJE-fJqNr2ok6Zu4fqBWVFBFwdBwMwvB15E78yetI/s72-w640-h426-c/RS48760_2024_10%20misc-16.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2025/10/honoring-angin-zoo-mourns-loss-of.html
summary: 'Posted by Craig Newberry, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooAngin touched many lives and we will miss his amazing presence.Woodland
  Park Zoo is mourning the loss of one of its male Malayan tigers Angin (ON-yin),
  15, after he was humanely euthanized this morning due to significant decline in
  health and quality...'
title: 'Honoring Angin: Zoo Mourns the Loss of Critically Endangered Malayan Tiger'
---

Posted by Craig Newberry, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooAngin touched many lives and we will miss his amazing presence.Woodland Park Zoo is mourning the loss of one of its male Malayan tigers Angin (ON-yin), 15, after he was humanely euthanized this morning due to significant decline in health and quality of life.For several months, animal keepers observed Angin’s mobility declining, along with a decrease in appetite. Earlier this year, he was examined, and analgesic medications were started. After further decline was noted, a follow-up exam and an MRI were performed this summer. These diagnostics showed that Angin had severe, degenerative, and progressive changes to the bones of the neck, which were causing inflammation and pain. The zoo’s animal health team changed his treatment plan based on these findings.“Angin was treated with multiple medications, including anti-inflammatories, muscle relaxants, and analgesics, which he responded favorably to, and his condition initially improved.” said Dr. Laura St. Clair, Associate Veterinarian, Woodland Park Zoo. “Unfortunately, over the past few weeks Angin's condition rapidly declined. We adjusted his medications once more but, unfortunately, his condition did not improve, and the difficult decision was made to humanely euthanize Angin. The ability to provide Angin treatment and comfort was only possible because of the dedication and support of his incredible caretakers.”As a standard procedure, the zoo’s animal health team will perform a postmortem exam to further diagnose factors that may have contributed to Angin's condition.Angin, which means wind in Indonesian, arrived at Woodland Park Zoo last October from Ellen Trout Zoo in Texas. He was the brother of Woodland Park Zoo’s other male Malayan tiger, 15-year-old Bumi (Boo-mee), which means earth in Indonesian.“Angin made a big impression on the zoo community with his majestic presence always stunning guests,” said Arden Robert, Animal Care Manager, Woodland Park Zoo. “Angin was a little more reserved than his brother Bumi and had a love for water. Guests, as well as staff, will miss seeing him soaking in the stream in the tiger habitat. We’ll miss you handsome guy!”The zoo’s female Malayan tiger, 9-year-old Azul, can be seen roaming the tiger habitat in Banayan Wilds on a rotating schedule with Bumi.Malayan tigers are a critically endangered species with only about 150 left in the wild. In all, there are six subspecies of tigers: Malayan tigers are significantly smaller than the larger Amur and Bengal tigers and are found in the tropical and subtropical moist broadleaf forests of the southern tip of Thailand and Peninsular Malaysia.In an effort to save these iconic big cats from extinction, in 2012 Woodland Park Zoo created a partnership with Panthera and Rimba, an in-country field partner of the zoo, to launch the Malayan Tiger Conservation Project. This project is in its second 10-year initiative with the Terengganu State Government to protect tigers in and around Taman Negara National Park in peninsular Malaysia.