---
date: 2026-05-08 17:29:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgjCN7xlHpQGdCheJ2Jss3O6noWeR38CvaIRdRvWT-H8i3oA-FT55aWpVtxqDCV5S4Vw9IY3osIZK1BFtoXJAjfBRRJlE4m4iNc8DEJACb2Zpa9XRLKg2KlItNIzFyKgVVTGZPpa405aVcYmmOMvNgo_1dPlRDMNlXUhlyliOp3GRXVKf5e4eDD4gjKPYU/s72-w426-h640-c/RS52574__66A8944-Edit.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/05/birth-watch-begins-for-two-pregnant.html
summary: Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsThe birth watch has officially started
  for two pregnant western lowland gorillas who are due to give birth five days apart
  in May. It’s all hands on deck for Woodland Park Zoo’s animal health and gorilla
  care teams as they gear up for the delivery of...
title: Birth watch begins for two pregnant gorillas, Jamani and Olympia!
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsThe birth watch has officially started for two pregnant western lowland gorillas who are due to give birth five days apart in May. It’s all hands on deck for Woodland Park Zoo’s animal health and gorilla care teams as they gear up for the delivery of two healthy baby gorillas.&nbsp;Olympia. Photo by Beth Keplinger/Woodland Park ZooJamani. Photo by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe expecting gorillas are Olympia, due May 19, and Jamani, due May 24. The gestation period for gorillas is eight and a half months. The birth watch signals 24-hour monitoring. Overnight, zoo volunteers are observing each gorilla remotely on cams installed in the bedrooms, collecting data such as behavioral changes and sleeping patterns and looking for any telltale signs that might indicate the onset of labor. A gorilla keeper is on call to respond in case either gorilla goes into labor in the middle of the night; during the day, routine care for all the zoo’s gorillas continues with an extra close watch on the pregnant gorillas when they’re in the outdoor habitat with their family. This will be the second offspring for each gorilla. Jamani and Olympia lived together at North Carolina Zoo where they each gave birth to a son in 2012 weeks apart and successfully raised them together. They arrived at Woodland Park Zoo in 2022. A methodical birth management plan is created for each gorilla pregnancy and includes pre- and post-natal care—such as regular veterinary checkups, a diet created by a nutritionist, and supplemental vitamins to help the gorillas maintain a healthy weight for a delivery without challenges—combined with a strong focus on maternal skills training, explained Martin Ramirez, Curator of Mammalogy at Woodland Park Zoo. Through trusting relationships between the gorilla care team and the gorillas, Jamani and Olympia have been trained to voluntarily participate in exams and procedures, including ultrasound imaging every other week. These procedures are non-invasive and safe, and the gorillas have the choice to participate or not. Ultrasound images are key in tracking fetal development and allow the zoo’s veterinarians to visualize fetal movement, growth and cardiac function and obtain measurements to monitor their growth. Today, the zoo is sharing ultrasound images of each growing fetus.&nbsp;Gorilla ultrasound, Jamani, March 17The gorilla care and animal health teams are joined by a team of human medical obstetricians as well as a representative from Butterfly Network. This healthcare company has created a state-of-the-art, small ultrasound probe that is self-contained and communicates directly with smartphones and tablets, and has generated high-quality images of the developing gorilla babies.&nbsp;Gorilla ultrasound, Olympia, March 31“We have been using Butterfly Network’s ultrasound probe to monitor Jamani’s and Olympia’s pregnancies, and we’re pleased to report that the images indicate normal development up to this point,” said veterinarian Dr. Tim Storms, Director of Animal Health at Woodland Park Zoo. “We're impressed by the functionality of this ultrasound probe. Its compact size makes it an excellent diagnostic tool not just for pregnancy monitoring but for assessment of animals around the zoo.” "Butterfly is incredibly proud to support Woodland Park Zoo at such a meaningful moment. This work is a direct reflection of our mission to deliver ultrasound technology that is durable, versatile and ultra-portable, so high-quality imaging can be available wherever it’s needed,” said Jenna Mutch, Vice President, Veterinary, Butterfly Network. “It’s inspiring to see this technology contribute to the health and wellbeing of Olympia and Jamani, and to support conservation efforts that help protect gorilla populations for generations to come." How are the pregnant gorillas during the ultrasound procedures? “Jamani and Olympia are exemplary patients. Even the presence of additional medical individuals doesn’t rattle them; they have remained calm and still throughout each ultrasound session. Of course, rewarding them with favorite treats, such as grapes, yogurt and applesauce, are an added incentive!” said Arden Robert, Animal Care Manager for Primates at Woodland Park Zoo.&nbsp;Silverback Nadaya.&nbsp;Photo by Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe father-to-be for both babies is Nadaya; the offspring will be the first for the silverback—an adult male gorilla—of the family group. Silverbacks, in the wild and in zoos, play a critical role by providing stability, protecting, leading and maintaining peace in their family group. The silverback moved from Saint Louis Zoo in 2022. Woodland Park Zoo currently cares for 11 western lowland gorillas living in two separate family groups. Group one: silverback (adult male gorilla) Kwame; adult females Nadiri, Akenji and Uzumma; juvenile females Yola and Zuna, daughters of Nadiri; and juvenile male, Kitoko, son of Kwame and Uzumma. Group two: silverback Nadaya; and adult females Jumoke, Olympia and Jamani. Help gorillas A portion of every visit and membership to Woodland Park Zoo supports saving wildlife in the Pacific Northwest and around the world, including protecting western lowland gorillas. Recycle old cell phones and other used handheld electronics through ECO-CELL to help preserve gorilla habitat. Adopt a gorilla: ZooParent adoptions help the zoo provide exceptional care for its gorillas and all its amazing animals.p.s. Get the scoop on how the animal care team prepares for two baby gorillas: What to expect when expecting, with gorilla moms Olympia and Jamani