---
date: 2026-03-03 18:00:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiTY7ooIfqCmrzWR_4vAFuiijEdOynW7C1bth9NFzoXuM6Ipe0Sd9toGr3PJyTYVTxrQC6tLNQ3Rq-fdjZnfZeXKi4SzWC7J30Oq-8J4K2HXR6PQHKUQwlZspT0RJaLo8CUMHRCebWBKLATetZ5SdMVyJ2DDZ43-ggMogt75sAEjwmKAp1VBuXL54mj5dQ/s72-w640-h426-c/RS51547_Forest%20Trailhead-05_Image%20credit%20Adam%20Hunter-LMN%20Architects.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/03/forest-trailhead-exhibit-to-open-may-1.html
summary: Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhoto by Adam Hunter, LMN ArchitectsJeremy
  Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park ZooThrough a treetop path, across a forest landscape,
  and inside an all-seasons pavilion, the all-new Forest Trailhead exhibit at Woodland
  Park Zoo will bring to life every animal’s and human being’s connection to forests.
  In honor...
title: Forest Trailhead exhibit to open May 1, 2026!
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhoto by Adam Hunter, LMN ArchitectsJeremy Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park ZooThrough a treetop path, across a forest landscape, and inside an all-seasons pavilion, the all-new Forest Trailhead exhibit at Woodland Park Zoo will bring to life every animal’s and human being’s connection to forests. In honor of World Wildlife Day today, the zoo is proud to announce that the 12,000-square-foot building and 1-acre grounds dedicated to the global movement for forest conservation will open on Friday, May 1, 2026.&nbsp;Forests are home to the greatest diversity of wildlife on land, enriching the planet with species that Earth can’t afford to lose. The interactive, multi-sensory exhibit will be home to tree kangaroos, red panda, kea parrots, and a variety of reptiles, amphibians, fish and invertebrates. LMN Architects and Sellen Construction were the design team and general contractor, respectively. Bordering the zoo’s West Plaza entry, Forest Trailhead will immerse guests in the wildlife and habitats of the world’s forests and offer a hopeful view on the future of forests and the people and animals who depend on them.Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park ZooAdam Hunter, LMN ArchitectsGuests will begin the journey along a sky-high canopy path winding through the treetops and experience a whole new view of the zoo from the perspective of treetop-dwelling animals: Papua New Guinea’s Matschie’s tree kangaroos—yes, there are kangaroos that live in trees!—and Nepal’s red panda. This will mark the first time in a decade that guests will be able to see tree kangaroos at the zoo. The experience will share the empowering story of the Papua New Guinea communities that have been partnering with the zoo’s Tree Kangaroo Conservation Program for 30 years to save one of the last intact cloud forests of the world. A fully accessible path will lead guests down to the mid-level of the building where they will encounter New Zealand’s keas—clever parrots with investigative minds and busy beaks. The lower level is a showcase of African, Asian and Australasian tree-dwelling reptiles and colorful amphibians—including four-eyed turtle, Chinese crocodile lizard, Fiji banded iguana, blue-legged mantella—and fish and invertebrates in mixed-species groups. Forest Trailhead paths leading back out to the forest through the landscape highlight the critical role of the forest floor in the health of the ecosystem. Throughout the pavilion, open plazas offer interpretive information where animal keeper talks and special events can be hosted, and visitors are empowered to take direct action to help and be active members of the conservation community. Indigenous art and interpretation further enrich the visitor experience, honoring the cultural heritage of communities that are leading global conservation efforts.Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park ZooJeremy Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park Zoo“From the forest floor up to the treetop canopy, Forest Trailhead is a dynamic reminder that our lives—animals and people—are connected to forests every day. Forests are our lungs, our livelihoods, our happiness, our home. Forests provide food, medicine, beauty, serenity, resources and more. Forests enrich our lives, creating cleaner air, water and soil,” said Alejandro Grajal, Woodland Park Zoo President and CEO. “Through the immersive forest exhibit and experiences in the wildlife and plant habitats of these ecosystems, guests will discover how to make simple, everyday choices as a consumer and a community member to help forests thrive.”&nbsp;Unlike anywhere else in the zoo’s 92-acre urban forest, Forest Trailhead is a space where naturalistic habitats combine with modern architecture and exposed systems that reveal the zoo’s often hidden work of caring for animals, habitats and people. “The urgency and scale of forest conservation that are needed today require active, hands-on management, and Forest Trailhead uniquely reveals and celebrates the caretaker’s role. It’s a place where we can show what we do as a zoo, amplify what communities are doing around the world and welcome our guests to be part of this movement,” said Katie Bang, Woodland Park Zoo Senior Director of Facilities &amp; Built Environment. Forest Trailhead is targeting LEED Gold (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) by the U.S. Green Building Council. The building, habitats, and surroundings of Forest Trailhead embody the zoo’s commitment to sustainability and incorporate strategies to reduce embodied carbon, manage stormwater on site, and promote biophilic design, including bird-safe windows and solar panels. The United Nations designated World Wildlife Day as a day to celebrate planet Earth, its wildlife, and the critical conservation work being done around the world to make sure ecosystems and plant and animal species are able to thrive for future generations.Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren | Woodland Park Zoo