---
date: 2026-05-19 17:59:14 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhVmJyX1OUdoC6K61m2l0QLHmi3qQqwVw7MGVOklzYrKvM9NIJmJse5YE5SGKb09dbapmPZkMbxl7Eitza5dvCDuv8woiMLNJZecRS_biUTDnJ9Mu2WLVMj5srhRxPFr7_YHEe8BYVKfDWxSsxX9rw4NX-bT4uB5aFXE1J1IISIWtC_WYmVGq_sxhsu4b8/s72-w640-h426-c/RS53778_2026_05_18%20hyena-2.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/05/after-two-decades-spotted-hyenas-return.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooWelcome Razi and Mosi!There’s a new chorus of cackling at Woodland Park
  Zoo as spotted hyenas make their debut! Two males, 3-year-old Razi and 1-year-old
  Mosi, arrived from Metro Richmond Zoo located in Moseley, Virginia. The new hyenas
  mark the first time...'
title: After two decades, spotted hyenas return to Woodland Park Zoo's African Savanna
  habitat!
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWelcome Razi and Mosi!There’s a new chorus of cackling at Woodland Park Zoo as spotted hyenas make their debut! Two males, 3-year-old Razi and 1-year-old Mosi, arrived from Metro Richmond Zoo located in Moseley, Virginia. The new hyenas mark the first time in 25 years for visitors to have a rare opportunity to see and learn about these skilled social hunters that are so often misunderstood.Razi and Mosi can be seen in a habitat adjacent to where the lions live in the African Savanna. The last spotted hyena at the zoo was a geriatric female named Mara who retired in 2001 in an off-view habitat until she passed away at the age of 27.Mosi, who is 1 year old, is recognizable by the notch in his ear.Razi is 3 years old.Bringing hyenas back is part of Woodland Park Zoo’s near-term and future plan to diversify the species of animals at the zoo. “Animals and people are critically interconnected and all animals play a key role in their respective ecosystems. Caring for a variety of animal species at the zoo enhances our ability to highlight their natural history, spotlight how they help their ecosystems, provide a snapshot of biodiversity and help visitors foster empathy for all wildlife,” said Dr. Luis Neves, Interim Chief Zoological Officer and Senior Director of Animal Care at Woodland Park Zoo.“Our new hyenas are young and pretty shy. As they explore the outdoor habitat, we’re continuing to give them access to the off-view indoor dens should they choose to retreat, so viewing opportunities may be limited initially,” said Martin Ramirez, Curator of Mammalogy at Woodland Park Zoo.“Hyenas often get a bad rap in movies and books—vilified because they are scavengers. However, contrary to this misconception, hyenas are highly intelligent and intriguing animals. Despite their reputation as scavengers, hyenas play an important role as one of Africa’s top predators and scavenging clean-up crews,” said Ramirez. “Razi and Mosi will provide our visitors a rare window into their intricate world.”Hyenas live in highly complex social groups known as clans, which may number up to 130 individuals. Unlike wolf packs, which are family groups typically led by a mated alpha pair, hyena clans have a strict dominance hierarchy. Females rule the group, and even the lowest-ranking female outranks the highest-ranking male; cubs inherit their mother’s social rank. Clan members hunt solo or in smaller groups and defend their territory and communal den from lions and other hyena clans.Hyenas have a broad range of vocalizations, particularly the well-known eerie giggle, giving them the moniker of “laughing hyena.” While vocalizations help keep track of clan members, the laughing sound usually signals high stress, competition or a fear of no access to food.With long front legs and shorter back legs, they can run up to 37 miles per hour and will chase prey for long distances. They are accomplished hunters, with jaw strength far exceeding that of their famous competitor, the lion, and strong teeth to chomp through hooves and bones that other predators can’t handle.Spotted hyenas are found across sub-Saharan Africa, only missing from the dryest deserts, highest mountains and densest rain forests. They’ve even found success living in cities, such as Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, much like local coyotes in the greater Seattle area. However, in most parts of their home range they face threats from hunting and retaliation for livestock killing, which means they are mostly restricted to national parks and reserves.