---
date: 2026-04-26 15:33:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEgA-1CrnRNDzmTBFXwSvScg6TAsDtN8SKOP5BOCrOBLVWDZh3knvtM0I0HsVNXLwNsVXJVLecG4L0n44f7feB3fyLBCa7kYWsvkAeh5gCNOep2Qr2pc7RYANLQ63ZTyjH2sbKK6_kLtsZlTbhRkPFShC1GMlvHUa9d0Xd8gGnUzP31oXtTA127BKOwOW80/s72-w640-h426-c/RS50553_2025_05%20misc-20.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/04/furwell-tour-snow-leopard-siblings.html
summary: 'Posted by Craig Newberry, CommunicationsPhoto: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooWoodland Park Zoo is preparing to say goodbye to three snow leopards born
  at the zoo in May 2024, as they’ve now matured enough to begin their separate journeys.Lenny,
  Phyllis and Raya were born under the Snow Leopard Species Survival Plan, a...'
title: 'Furwell tour: snow leopard siblings prepare for their next adventures!'
---

Posted by Craig Newberry, CommunicationsPhoto: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWoodland Park Zoo is preparing to say goodbye to three snow leopards born at the zoo in May 2024, as they’ve now matured enough to begin their separate journeys.Lenny, Phyllis and Raya were born under the Snow Leopard Species Survival Plan, a cooperative breeding program across accredited zoos to help ensure a healthy, self-sustaining population of the species. The cubs are nearly 2 years old now—an age when they would naturally separate from their mother. They are now able to move to different zoos accredited by the Association of Zoos &amp; Aquariums to continue to be ambassadors for their species by inspiring visitors to take impactful action to help save these beautiful cats in their natural range.A cuddle puddle of siblings&nbsp;Lenny, Phyllis and Raya back in December 2024.&nbsp;Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooGuests are encouraged to come say their final "furwells" by April 29 when Lenny will be the first to move. Phyllis and Raya will also move this year. Their move dates are pending, and in lieu of separate announcements for each departure, this press release serves as the upcoming departure announcement for all three.Feline fans can continue to visit snow leopards Marai and Aibek, mom and dad of the siblings, respectively, who will continue to live at Woodland Park Zoo!Snow leopards are listed as a Vulnerable species on the IUCN Red List. The snow leopard is a moderately large cat native to the high mountain ranges of Central and South Asia and Russia, including in Afghanistan, China, India, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Nepal and Pakistan. According to the Seattle-based Snow Leopard Trust, the population of these vulnerable big cats in the wild is estimated to be between 4,000 and 6,390.Photo: Beth Keplinger/Woodland Park ZooWoodland Park Zoo has long been a conservation partner with the Snow Leopard Trust (SLT) and the zoo has been caring for snow leopards since the zoo’s first snow leopards arrived in 1972 from the USSR. The Snow Leopard Trust was created in 1981 by the late Woodland Park Zoo staff member Helen Freeman.Through innovative programs, effective partnerships, and the latest science, the SLT is saving these beautiful cats and improving the lives of people who live in the snow leopard countries of Central Asia.To help ensure the future of snow leopards in their native range, the zoo asks the community to support the zoo and the Snow Leopard Trust, and pledge never to buy or sell illegal animal products on the black market. You can learn more about SLT and how you can help protect these majestic cats by visiting snowleopard.org.