---
date: 2026-04-08 21:49:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhVOEUjGRxJaZkev7DB3j5Tgc5VF3wgwTGVktH6CW_4FhGywNOS83AbIR2skP36_ZoB1LUXlGUHC_6VepK8BCAYMLTQDqfz-j1mBZuO5fqojmoxaSd5WIkmQdkYw-dYDKPRHGrEAtAOb3yYiJQ8Nm59Xw3liYHuo_kyBUIyYQFASTcFc-7r0YfjBMTqM0E/s72-w640-h426-c/RS46211_2024_03%20misc-66.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/04/what-to-expect-when-expecting-with.html
summary: 'Posted by Elizabeth Bacher. CommunicationsEditor’s Note: Big shout-outs
  of gratitude and appreciation to members of Woodland Park Zoo’s extraordinary, expert
  gorilla care team for answering all our questions, including Stephanie, Judy, Traci,
  Ashley and Tesh!Jamani and Olympia are both expecting babies in May! Photo: Jeremy
  Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWe recently shared...'
title: What to expect when expecting, with gorilla moms Olympia and Jamani
---

Posted by Elizabeth Bacher. CommunicationsEditor’s Note: Big shout-outs of gratitude and appreciation to members of Woodland Park Zoo’s extraordinary, expert gorilla care team for answering all our questions, including Stephanie, Judy, Traci, Ashley and Tesh!Jamani and Olympia are both expecting babies in May! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWe recently shared with you that two of Woodland Park Zoo’s gorillas are pregnant and due to give birth five days apart this spring! The pregnant gorillas are Olympia, due May 19, and Jamani, due May 24. The father-to-be for both babies is Nadaya. The gestation period for gorillas is nearly nine months—only about two weeks shy of human gestation.This will be the second offspring for both pregnant gorillas. Before arriving at Woodland Park Zoo in 2022, Olympia, 29, and Jamani, 26, lived together at North Carolina Zoo. Each gave birth to a son just weeks apart in 2012 and successfully raised them together. Flashback: Jamani and Olympia—seen here with their first babies Bomassa and Apollo back in 2012—gave birth within weeks of each other&nbsp;at North Carolina Zoo. Photo: Courtesy of North Carolina ZooFor silverback leader Nadaya, who just celebrated his 25th birthday, the babies will be his first offspring! But is he ready for fatherhood? How are both Olympia’s and Jamani’s pregnancies coming along? And how is our animal care team preparing for all this gorilla excitement? We asked the team all your questions and we’re happy to share the answers with you in this DOUBLE edition of “What to Expect When Expecting a Baby Gorilla!” WPZ: First things first—how are both expectant mamas doing? Since both Olympia and Jamani have experienced pregnancies before, is it possible they might recognize or remember what they’re feeling and associate it with an impending birth—or that they might even be aware of the other one’s pregnancy? Gorilla Care Team: Both gorillas are doing really well! We have been asked this too—about whether they “know” they’re pregnant—but it is something we just will never know. It is possible Olympia and Jamani might recognize or feel these changes in their bodies and know what’s happening, but because we have no way to specifically ask that, there is just no way to be sure.Beautiful Jamani! Photo: Beth Keplinger/Woodland Park ZooTheir due dates are five days apart—May 19 for Olympia and May 24 for Jamani. How are those dates calculated and are they usually pretty accurate? Also has Woodland Park Zoo ever had two gorilla births so close together?In the past we’ve had gorillas born several months apart, but not days. We wanted Olympia and Jamani to have babies close to the same age so they could grow up together, but for them to get pregnant within days of each other was very exciting! The birth windows for these females—the period of time before the due date when a normal birth could be expected—will begin about two weeks before the first due date—around May 5. We will keep a close eye on both of them!As for how all these dates are calculated, adult female gorillas have an approximate 28-day menstrual cycle—just like humans—and we monitor those very carefully. We also keep track of their interest in mating. If a female is not interested, she can and will refuse any advances from the silverback. But if she is ovulating or in estrus she may be the one making the advances ... openly and strongly soliciting “attention” from her silverback. All the female gorillas are trained to urinate into PVC pipes, so if they miss a menstrual cycle we can test their urine using the same kind of pregnancy tests humans use. The gestation period for western lowland gorillas is around 8.5 months. That means we can estimate a due date by counting out 8.5 months from that female’s last known menstrual cycle—or more precisely from the first day of breeding.All the female gorillas are trained to urinate into PVC pipes, so if they miss a menstrual cycle we can test their urine using the same kind of pregnancy tests humans use. Photo: Woodland Park ZooWe’ve learned through previous Q &amp; As with your team that pregnant gorillas can experience so-called “morning sickness” similar to how humans do. Has either of our current mothers-to-be shown any behaviors that indicate they might be experiencing that? We [the gorilla keepers] each see different things on different days—but the consensus is that both of them have probably experienced some mild morning sickness. For Jamani, she was not as interested in eating her greens at dinner and would only eat her fruits and browse. In general, she just seemed more selective about what she would eat—but this was only for a few days during her first trimester. After that we haven’t really seen any signs that would indicate she wasn’t feeling well. Olympia may be a little harder to gauge because she is a slower eater in general. Full meals are mostly offered behind the scenes, where we can make sure everyone gets what they need. But snacks are often tossed to each gorilla separately while they’re in their habitat—and snack time is where we saw the slight change with Olympia. Before she was pregnant, Olympia would scoop up all her snacks (which could be something like a piece of fruit and yam) and move them out of reach before any other gorillas could claim them (we’re looking at YOU Nadaya). By carrying them away she could eat in peace and at her own pace, but early in her pregnancy, she started just slowly picking at her snacks and then moving away from them, as if she wasn’t interested. Then Nadaya, who simply couldn't resist the opportunity, would come and gather up any treats she wasn’t eating. So we adjusted and started offering Olympia her snacks more slowly, at a speed more suited to her appetite—leaving no leftovers for Nadaya to snatch.Olympia (seen here) and Jamani are doing great, but both showed signs indicating they might have experienced some "morning sickness" or nausea early in their pregnancies. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooOther than changes from possible nausea or pickiness, how do Jamani’s and Olympia’s diets change during pregnancy? Their diets don’t change much during pregnancy, but they did start receiving a pre-natal vitamin instead of their regular multi-vitamin. After they give birth, their caloric needs will increase due to nursing so that’s when we would increase their diet. We know that both of these gorillas are skilled and experienced mothers, but it’s been more than 10 years since they had their last babies. How do you help make sure they’re ready for parenting duties again? Olympia and Jamani both take part in side-by-side maternal training sessions with us every day. For these sessions, we use two toy “babies” for them to practice with. One of them is a de-stuffed plush gorilla doll from the zoo store, and the other is a piece of fuzzy material that actually looks nothing like a gorilla at all—but it works just fine for training.Photo: Judy Sievert/Woodland Park ZooFor these sessions, we ask Olympia and Jamani to “get their baby” and bring it to a bottle that a keeper is holding at a mesh barrier. We’ll move the bottle to different locations and both of them are rewarded with treats whenever they bring their “baby” to the bottle and/or hold it there. This not only reinforces the request to “get your baby,” but will be very helpful in the event that supplemental feedings or any medications are necessary for any reason. An amusing thing happened during one of these sessions a few weeks ago. Jamani seems to really like the doll that looks more like a gorilla to the point that she is hesitant to give it back to us at the end of the sessions. We typically give that “baby” to Olympia—in part because she is less likely to be distracted with it—but on this particular morning we gave it to Jamani. Sure enough, at the end of the session she decided to keep it and carried it outside into the publicly-facing habitat. We suspected we would start getting questions and comments about the “baby” from staff and curious guests—and we were right! Then Jamani took it a step further—she put the plush gorilla doll onto her back and walked around with it. This is a common way for mother gorillas to carry their babies, and it made us all smile.&nbsp;Jamani decided to keep her practice plush toy "baby" and carry it around all day and overnight! Photo: Craig Newberry/Woodland Park ZooThe fact that Jamani likes this “baby” so much is just a unique characteristic of hers. Olympia couldn’t care less about it. We think Jamani knows it’s just a toy, but there’s obviously something about it that makes her want to hold on to it. What that might be—the feel, shape, size, color or even hormones from her pregnancy—we don’t know. But she seems to be getting some kind of contentment or emotional nourishment from it. Anyway, she kept that toy with her all day and overnight—only giving it up the next morning when we traded her a WHOLE banana for it. Half a banana was a no-go, and even with the offer of a whole one (which is a special treat) she still had to think about it for a while before she decided to accept the trade!These babies will be Nadaya's first offspring. We think he is going to be a wonderful father! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWhat are your expectations for Nadaya as a father? These babies will be his first, but he has had some experience with youngsters, hasn’t he? Yes, Nadaya lived with other infants when he was with his natal group (the group he was born into), but hasn’t sired any of his own babies until now—and he is the perfect age for first time fatherhood! At 25, Nadaya can control his behavior and hold back from being too rough when needed. Although younger males are physically capable of fathering an infant, most lack the maturity and self-control needed to attain “silverback” status where they can lead their own group of females. That’s why young adult male gorillas, both in the wild and in accredited zoos around the world, often live in bachelor groups for several years. These groups offer companionship, protection and the kind of learning opportunities for social development that male gorillas will need to be able to eventually lead their own group. With only several weeks left to go, what are some signs you will be looking for as Olympia and Jamani both enter their birth window(s)?There are many behaviors that can signal the onset of labor—things like constant nest building, frequently readjusting their body positions and acting restless like they can’t get comfortable. We may also see a disruption to their regular sleep pattern, unusual shaking in their arms or hands, increased urination, any signs of vaginal discharge, touching and tasting their genitals, straining and bearing down and lying prone more often than usual. Those behaviors can signal that a birth is imminent. Is the plan to separate Jamani or Olympia from the rest of the group for the birth or in the delicate hours right after—or is that completely up to them? Being alone is not natural for a female gorilla. In the wild they always stay with their silverback and group and that holds true in human care as well. They need to be with the group when they give birth so unless something happens which requires us to separate them, we keep the whole troop together during a birth. Gorillas always feel much more secure with their group around them and separating mom out could cause her more stress. If we had youngsters in this group, like Kitoko and Zuna (members of the other gorilla family group living at Woodland Park Zoo) who can get a little rambunctious, we may have to distract or move the kids for short periods of time right after the baby is born—but since these will be the first offspring for this group, we don’t anticipate having to separate anyone.In the first hours after birth, the gorilla care team will be looking for the new mothers to hold their babies close to them—demonstrated here by Uzumma holding newborn Kitoko back&nbsp;in 2020. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWhat are the first things you’ll hope to see after the birth? And what important milestones will you be looking for? We watch mothers with new infants around the clock for the first 72 hours to make sure all is well with their health and behavior. We want to see new moms holding their babies close. Infants can’t thermoregulate (maintain an optimal body temperature) so holding them close is critical. We monitor bouts of nursing—both how often they nurse as well as how long. We will be monitoring the new mothers for any signs of continued contractions or discomfort following birth. If that is the case, our veterinary team may suggest short-term pain medications to help. For the first few weeks, most of the milestones we look for will have to do with the health of the babies. Those nursing “knobs” on either side of their mouths can tell us whether they have a healthy suckle. Seeing urination, the passing of meconium, and the mustardy colored newborn stools, or the milk stools, will confirm nursing and the transfer of the mother’s antibodies to her baby. We want to see that the babies are nursing regularly, are strong and are thriving those first few weeks. As the babies become more aware, we might see them tracking objects by turning their little heads. We will want to see when each infant can hang on to their mother by themselves—or more precisely, since infants are born with pretty good grip strength—we will see that the mother is more trusting of her baby's strength. Then she will feel more comfortable letting the baby support itself, without her having to hold it as she moves. It will be so much fun to see when the babies are able to focus on each other. Baby gorillas are attracted to looking at and reaching for each other, just like human children are. Is it true that it can take a little bit of time to even see the sex of the baby? Yes, this is true. When moms hold their new babies closely they will often have their hand cradling their bottom, making it hard to see. But eventually mom will turn her baby around so we will be able to tell soon enough.Get ready for fatherhood, Nadaya! There are bound to be some epic play sessions in your future! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWhat will Nadaya’s role be once the babies arrive? Might Jamani or Olympia “allow” Nadaya to get close to them and their babies in the first days and weeks after birth? The silverback is very important to a gorilla mother and her infant. They may keep a bit of distance at first—gauging the comfort level of the new mom—but they will be watchful and will opportunistically touch or smell the infant if the female is ok with it. They are usually good about knowing what is ok and the females will walk away or keep their distance if they don’t want the interaction. But some new mothers might even seek out the silverback because she feels safer next to him. Either way, a silverback’s main job will be to keep the peace in the troop and keep rough-housing to a minimum. As they grow, you will likely see youngsters playing around and climbing up onto their fathers. Silverbacks are very tolerant of their babies. Gorillas have evolved to love and care for their offspring so their genes can be carried on in the population. We think Nadaya is going to be a wonderful father! What about Jumoke, the older female in Nadaya’s group? Are there any concerns as to how she will react to having babies in the group? Jumoke will be 41 in May. Her babies are all grown up and on their own. It will be interesting to see how she reacts to having new babies in her group. Gorilla adults usually think babies are cute and like to watch their antics just like we humans do. It is going to be fun to see how Jumoke behaves—whether she will be curious about them or not—but either way, we don’t have any concerns about her in the group.Jamani (on the left) with Olympia snoozing beside her. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWhat can our guests who love visiting the gorillas expect to see? If mamas and babies seem healthy and are doing well, might they be visible right away—or does this depend on the comfort level of each mother? Hopefully with the babies due in May, the weather will be good which will allow us to let them on exhibit soon after birth (within a few days). This is also dependent on how moms are doing as well. But if everything is going well and the weather is warm, guests will be able to see them pretty quickly. What kind of play behaviors will mothers typically engage in with their babies? Initially there will just be a lot of touch tasting, smelling and close inspections through every inch of their babies. We may see a lot of gentle bouncing and patting on the backs of their babies. It is very comforting and soothing for both mother and baby. It’s fun to watch a baby gorilla respond to their mother’s handling of them. They are ticklish and will start to do a gorilla version of a laugh when they are only a few weeks old. Some moms will tickle their baby with their fingers or toes. Some will mock-bite their babies to tickle them too. We have seen them do many of the same kinds of things humans do with their babies—like mama lying on her back with her legs up, balancing baby on her feet while she holds baby’s hands, giving them an “airplane ride”. When the baby is a little older and more coordinated, mothers may gently wrestle with their babies too.As soon as baby gorillas are old enough to play, their urges to&nbsp;chase each other and wrestle will be irresistible!&nbsp;This demonstration of shenanigans is provided by Kitoko and Zuna, youngsters from Woodland Park Zoo's other gorilla family group! Photo: Annie Kwan/Woodland Park ZooAt what age will youngsters begin to wander from mom and/or interact with each other? Depending on the mom’s comfort level, babies can start exploring near their mothers as early as 2.5 - 3 months old, but it might depend on how close the mothers sit to each other. Jamani and Olympia have had a close relationship for many years and they raised their first babies together. So they may sit right next to each other earlier than they would if they weren’t close. If this is the case, the babies may reach out to each other sooner than 2 months while their moms are holding them. It will depend on how protective each mom feels they must be. Once the babies want to start moving around it will be hard to stop them and their urges to chase each other will be irresistible! We often see moms holding onto a hand or a foot, trying to keep their youngster from moving too far away. In the months (and years) that follow, we expect there will be plenty of epic play sessions with lots of chasing, tumbling, climbing and wrestling. It is going to be so much fun to watch! We can’t wait to see it, and we can’t wait for all our visitors to see it too!You can help protect gorillas and gorilla habitat by recycling old cell phones and handheld devices at one of the zoo's ECO-CELL collection bins. Photo: Elizabeth Bacher/Woodland Park ZooHow You Can Help GorillasA portion of every visit and membership to Woodland Park Zoo supports saving wildlife in the Pacific Northwest and around the world, including protecting western lowland gorillas. Recycle old cell phones and other used handheld electronics through ECO-CELL to help preserve gorilla habitat. ZooParent adoptions help the zoo provide exceptional care for its gorillas and all its amazing animals.