---
date: 2026-03-26 15:00:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEiYMg7Dia8xU5rrGF1Eg3w02N48lr75cvndkIdtHjaWRgiRnZ9aGycVxVqPbSCTxFL4cfY3Ev6zwajm0_sB385zX3CzxJb_0SyeWJkNRp7EQy9KWjLtqni9mVIqyf4U-72yj0uqATOl7ZfaWHV7habRKNtp57fXaxjjIyHXrVmefi_W5NKjdxuX58kT6R0/s72-w640-h426-c/RS51742_2025_10%20misc-11.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/03/dave-one-of-woodland-park-zoos-giraffes.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooUPDATE 3/26/26 at 4pm:&nbsp;Thanks to our incredible Animal Health and Animal
  Care teams, Dave’s hoof procedure this morning went smoothly, and he was quickly
  back up on his feet. Dave received a silicone fill to address a hole in his right
  front...'
title: Dave, one of Woodland Park Zoo's giraffes, to undergo hoof procedure.
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooUPDATE 3/26/26 at 4pm:&nbsp;Thanks to our incredible Animal Health and Animal Care teams, Dave’s hoof procedure this morning went smoothly, and he was quickly back up on his feet. Dave received a silicone fill to address a hole in his right front hoof as well as a full giraffe pedicure from an expert farrier. Massive thanks to all the folks who helped plan and execute a smooth and successful procedure for the&nbsp;tallest giraffe on African Savanna—and thanks to you all for sending Dave such warm wishes! Dave will be anesthetized as part of a procedure to look at his toe and hooves.Woodland Park Zoo’s animal care staff have a very tall order to carry out as they team up in the giraffe barn today to perform a procedure on the zoo’s 18-foot tall, male giraffe, Dave, who has a penetrating hole in the bottom of his right front toe that is affecting the bone of that digit. The giraffe’s overgrown feet will also be trimmed.Footcare is very important for a giraffe’s overall wellbeing. As a part of the advanced and evolving care for all its animals at the zoo, the giraffe care team follows a routine footcare program to keep the herd healthy overall, including training the giraffe to participate in their own hoof and medical care. However, Dave’s foot condition requires more significant treatment that can’t be done without anesthesia.Footcare is very important for a giraffe’s overall wellbeing.&nbsp;For today’s procedure, 13-year-old Dave will be fully anesthetized and lying on his side. “Because of the attentive daily care and observations by the giraffe keepers, we’re able to promptly diagnose his problem which allows us to medically intervene and treat the issue. Giraffe anesthesia presents risks, but we have significant experience within the animal health and animal care teams at Woodland Park Zoo and a solid plan for this procedure,” said veterinarian Dr. Tim Storms, Director of Animal Health at Woodland Park Zoo. This will mark the first time the 2,775-pound giraffe will be anesthetized.Steve Foxworth, a farrier and founder of the Colorado-based Zoo Hoofstock Trim Program, will provide hands-on consulting and treatment of Dave’s foot condition. In addition to doing corrective hoof trimming, the organization provides training courses for zoo caretakers and veterinarians on proper hoof care and trimming techniques to provide the best care for their hoofed animals.Dave is a much-loved member of Woodland Park Zoo's Savanna herd.“Fortunately, our exhibits team has experience using advanced rigging systems to move massive mammals into position and will be prepared if it becomes necessary during this procedure,” added Storms. “While Dave is asleep, our giraffe keepers will administer neck and leg massage—and lots of TLC—throughout the procedure to help reduce muscular injury and soreness during his recovery.”In addition to Dave, the zoo has two female giraffe in its herd: 19-year-old Olivia and her sister, 17-year-old Tufani. “As the only male giraffe at Woodland Park Zoo and father of the last two giraffe born at the zoo, Dave has earned a legion of dedicated fans of all ages. We hope our zoo family and community will join us in wishing our statuesque giraffe the best for this procedure,” said Martin Ramirez, Curator of Mammalogy at Woodland Park Zoo.Giraffe sisters, Olivia and Tufani share the Savanna with Dave.Giraffe GemsGiraffe are the tallest land mammals on earth, ranging from 14 to 19 feet in height. Their legs alone are 6 feet tall!These towering animals can run as fast as 35 miles per hour.Giraffe spend most of their lives standing, even while sleeping or giving birth!A giraffe’s spots are like fingerprints—each individual has its own pattern.Giraffe are widespread across southern and eastern Africa, with smaller isolated populations in west and central Africa. Populations have decreased by about 30% in the past 35 years, with just 140,000 giraffe remaining across Africa due to habitat loss and fragmentation, droughts and poaching. Woodland Park Zoo supports the Association of Zoos &amp; Aquariums’ Giraffe SAFE (Saving Animals From Extinction) program which strives to raise awareness to ensure a future and conserve habitat for the animals.