---
date: 2026-06-30 17:03:48 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhVvO0es3IQ4DFRjiBDoJqDRqFlb7xdgm1gb5eRjCN_BpQ8g7RSjc6leVUb2tUfoKM2oqRPbOcy9l0Wn8I2UUmdNhCQL3BuONjeK3g4Voem6l2RuOyuiVtqLye23XmXQCdedSuXGEX3R8YnkIqmsccTp0AutajPjxKNcx3vu8ka6xqDVEW5RgJTVmIYtlE/s72-w640-h426-c/RS54274_2026_06_29%20colobus.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/06/new-colobus-monkey-born-first-birth-of.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooWelcome to the world, baby!A fuzzy, pink-faced monkey with all-white fur
  has made its appearance in the tropical rain forest at Woodland Park Zoo! A black
  and white colobus monkey was born on June 15 to mom Mokiki (moh-KEE-kee) and dad
  Lewis,...'
title: 'New colobus monkey born: First birth of the species at the zoo in nearly three
  decades!'
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWelcome to the world, baby!A fuzzy, pink-faced monkey with all-white fur has made its appearance in the tropical rain forest at Woodland Park Zoo! A black and white colobus monkey was born on June 15 to mom Mokiki (moh-KEE-kee) and dad Lewis, marking the first birth of the species at the zoo in 29 years. Mokiki is an experienced mother. This is her second offspring and the first for new father, Lewis.The new baby, whose sex has not yet been determined, is the second offspring for mom Mokiki; she gave birth to a daughter, Anapenda, while living at her former home. Anapenda arrived at Woodland Park Zoo in 2024 with her mom.With long white fringes that run down their dramatic black coats and merge with their floofy, snow-white tail, black and white colobus look very much like skunks! Their long tails, which can grow to a length of 20 to 40 inches, act a bit like a parachute, slowing down their landing when the monkeys leap between trees.Colobus give birth after a five- to 6-month gestation. Infants, weighing about a pound at birth, are born completely white and slowly transition to the adult black and white coloring over its first three months of life. The entire family group of this monkey species takes turns caring for the infant, known as alloparenting, which may involve babysitting, grooming, carrying and protecting infants. By helping to raise other offspring, young females learn how to care for babies, making them successful moms in the future. The distinct white fur makes it easier for the group to spot who’s caring for the infant. “It’s been nearly three decades since we celebrated the birth of a colobus monkey at Woodland Park Zoo. We’re so happy about this new baby, another ambassador for their species, and an opportunity for zoo guests to get a peek into the family life of these striking monkeys,” said Arden Robert, Animal Care Manager of Primates at Woodland Park Zoo. “Mom Mokiki is a pro at motherhood and taking very good care of her new infant.” Zoo-goers can see the new baby colobus monkey with mom Mokiki, dad Lewis and aunt Anapenda in the outdoor section of the Tropical Rain Forest loop. Black and white colobus monkeys are found in the dense tropical forests that stretch along the equator across Africa. Their population is at risk due to deforestation and poaching.🩷P.S. As we celebrate the birth of this joyous new bundle of love, we want to acknowledge and remember Grabby, who lived an extraordinary life and a remarkable 32 years, 2 months and 2 days. Grabby passed away in November 2025, she was the oldest female colobus monkey in North America. Grabby’s remarkable longevity was a testament not only to her own resilient spirit but also to the exceptional dedication, attentiveness, and love she received from her keepers throughout her life. Her years here were shaped by steady hands, patient hearts, and an unwavering commitment to her well-being.&nbsp;