---
date: 2026-03-21 17:29:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEh-9FnqocGNzgzmigXDf9xVW4h8Trrna8x47Y6M02QdKVs2mpkCLj71Wc8AQNzJ9BtVsu9WD8O91TU5OJRDo4dxktyRuLvGQmwQAAtoBTjYnQg1AJe2Mw-tewXJZp9GpWBmpcmfITPfVVcI6lSD_KRSYCeeZWDzAiRL1q8g5pOXbbPKhAbYGpOOqKh-67U/s72-w426-h640-c/RS52636_2026_03_05%20FTH%20tree%20kangaroo-8.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/03/tree-kangaroo-tests-tree-tops-of-new.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooHello, Rocket! Welcome to your new Forest Trailhead habitat!What, a kangaroo
  in the trees? That’s right, there are indeed kangaroos that live in trees, and Rocket,
  a male Matschie’s tree kangaroo at Woodland Park Zoo, is living up to his species’
  moniker...'
title: 'Tree kangaroo tests the tree tops of new exhibit: All-new Forest Trailhead
  opens May 1!'
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooHello, Rocket! Welcome to your new Forest Trailhead habitat!What, a kangaroo in the trees? That’s right, there are indeed kangaroos that live in trees, and Rocket, a male Matschie’s tree kangaroo at Woodland Park Zoo, is living up to his species’ moniker and testing the treetops in the soon-to-open Forest Trailhead. The 12,000-square-foot building and 1-acre grounds is dedicated to the global movement for forest conservation and will open to the community on Friday, May 1, 2026.Rocket wasted no time exploring his new Forest Trailhead habitat. Look at those claws—perfect "tools" for climbing!Rocket is the first mammal to be introduced to the new habitats in Forest Trailhead. The all-new, interactive and multi-sensory exhibit, which borders the zoo’s West Plaza entry, will be home to tree kangaroos, red pandas, kea—alpine parrots native to New Zealand—and a variety of reptiles, amphibians and fish species.As the name implies, tree kangaroos are totally at ease in the trees! Rocket is a Matschie's tree roo—a species native to the cloud forests of Papua New Guinea.Introducing an animal to a new environment calls for an all-encompassing introduction strategy. Whether an animal is introduced to a brand new or an existing habitat, it is a methodical process that must be managed carefully for the well-being and safety of the animal, explained Dr. Luis Neves, Senior Director of Animal Care at Woodland Park Zoo. “We take introductions at a slow pace as the animal acclimates to their new home. The animal’s individual personality, coupled with the species’ inherent natural behaviors, such as climbing, swimming, jumping or brachiating, are taken into consideration,” said Neves. “Throughout the process as the animal is introduced to off-view areas and gradually the outdoor habitat, animal care staff closely monitor the animal as they explore every nook and cranny of their novel surroundings.”This will mark the first time in a decade that guests will be able to see tree kangaroos at the zoo. These marsupials are arboreal and spend nearly their entire lives in trees, equipped with exceptional climbing and jumping skills.The 12-year-old tree kangaroo was very curious as he explored his new digs. “Rocket climbed up high in the tree, then worked his way down to practice his climbing skills. This is the first time he’s navigating a large live tree, so he cautiously tested out many of the branches to see how they moved and whether they were sturdy enough for his weight,” said Beth Carlyle-Askew, a Lead Animal Keeper at Woodland Park Zoo. “Rocket is still learning and sussing out his favorite spots, though we have a few guesses. So far, he prefers being outside on nice days and isn’t quite convinced about going out in the rain. We reminded him that tree kangaroos are from the cloud forest, where it rains most days!”Over the coming weeks, other animals will be incrementally introduced to the new habitats leading up to the grand opening.Colorful keas, the world's only Alpine forest parrot, will also call the Forest Trailhead, home!The new Forest Trailhead will immerse guests in the wildlife and habitats of the world’s forests, home to the greatest diversity of wildlife on land, and offer a hopeful view on the future of forests and the people and animals who depend on them. Guests will begin the journey along a sky-high canopy path winding through the treetops and experience a whole new view of the zoo from the perspective of treetop-dwelling animals: Papua New Guinea’s Matschie’s tree kangaroos and Nepal’s red pandas. The experience will share the empowering story of the Papua New Guinea communities that have been partnering with the zoo’s Tree Kangaroo Conservation Program (TKCP) for 30 years to save one of the last intact cloud forests of the world. A flagship conservation program of Woodland Park Zoo, TKCP works with local communities in Papua New Guinea to save endangered Matschie’s tree kangaroos through education, health and livelihoods programming that benefits local communities.Red pandas, will have a brand new tree-filled habitat in the new Forest Trailhead.A fully accessible path will lead guests down to the mid-level of the building where they will encounter New Zealand’s kea—clever parrots with investigative minds and busy beaks. The lower level is a showcase of African, Asian, and Australasian tree-dwelling reptiles and colorful amphibians—including four-eyed turtle, Chinese crocodile lizard, Fiji banded iguana, blue-legged mantella—and fish species. Forest Trailhead paths leading back out to the forest through the landscape highlight the critical role of the forest floor in the health of the ecosystem.The 12,000-square-foot Forest Trailhead and its 1-acre grounds is dedicated to the global movement for forest conservation and will open to the community on Friday, May 1, 2026LMN Architects and Sellen Construction were the design team and general contractor, respectively. Woodland Park Zoo is truly grateful to the members of our community whose generous philanthropy made Forest Trailhead possible. The zoo thanks the nearly 7,800 donors whose confidence in the zoo's vision helped bring Forest Trailhead and its great promise to impact the future of forests to life.Woodland Park Zoo is truly grateful to the members of our community whose generous philanthropy made Forest Trailhead possible. The zoo thanks the nearly 7,800 donors whose confidence in the zoo's vision helped bring Forest Trailhead and its great promise to impact the future of forests to life.