---
date: 2026-04-02 17:00:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEilaUdnag_28sntYjayBNSIwFsZjVLIwfO_T4Tel_b7_peBRp6PMMMHce6eSGtsT0gcodo_Plq2Hn_AgVZLOJPhx_CBFZgO6qcrVpNGkBgqeF9yZ6tBa8q9uV7d3RL4cUcL20i22-DaV_Z-V1x4_0OCjfzYG1z2Lqgh9oeS-erlnvs2ytL4lt05I2XOA2Q/s72-w640-h426-c/RS52912_2026_03_27%20misc-41.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/04/carson-red-panda-moves-into-his-new.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooBeloved red panda, Carson, is exploring his new habitat!The treetops are
  alive! First, a tree kangaroo, and now a red panda is exploring the soon-to-open
  Forest Trailhead. The 12,000-square-foot building and 1-acre grounds are dedicated
  to the global movement for forest conservation...'
title: Carson the red panda moves into his new digs in Forest Trailhead, opening May
  1
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooBeloved red panda, Carson, is exploring his new habitat!The treetops are alive! First, a tree kangaroo, and now a red panda is exploring the soon-to-open Forest Trailhead. The 12,000-square-foot building and 1-acre grounds are dedicated to the global movement for forest conservation and will open to the community on Friday, May 1, 2026. Zoo members will receive early access during member preview days April 28–30, 2026.Carson, an 11-year-old male red panda who boasts an impressive fan base of his own, is the latest mammal to be introduced to the new habitats in Forest Trailhead. In addition to a red panda, the all-new, interactive and multi-sensory exhibit will be home to tree kangaroos, kea—alpine parrots native to New Zealand—and a variety of reptiles, amphibians and fish species.According to Woodland Park Zoo animal keeper Megan Blandford, Carson is adjusting well in Forest Trailhead’s new Glenn H. Kawasaki Foundation Habitat. “After getting acquainted with the off-view den, Carson ventured into the outside habitat, smelling every perch and scent-marking everything within sight,” said Blandford. “His favorite spot has been lying in the tunnel between the den and habitat with his head sticking out, much like a dog sticking his head out a dog door getting the lay of the land. Although at times he’s a bit hesitant about his new environment, he’s doing well. As always, his appetite has been great, a strong indicator he’s comfortable and content!”Introducing an animal to a new environment calls for an all-encompassing introduction strategy. Whether an animal is introduced to a brand new or an existing habitat, it is a methodical process that must be managed carefully for the well-being and safety of the animal, explained Dr. Luis Neves, Senior Director of Animal Care at Woodland Park Zoo. “We take introductions at a slow pace as the animal acclimates to their new home. The animal’s individual personality, coupled with the species’ inherent natural behaviors such as climbing, swimming, jumping or brachiating, are taken into consideration,” said Neves. “We continue to closely monitor Carson and tree kangaroo Rocket as the animals continue to settle into their novel surroundings.” Over the coming weeks, more animals will be introduced to Forest Trailhead habitats leading up to the grand opening on May 1.The new Forest Trailhead, which borders the zoo’s West Plaza entry, was designed to immerse guests in the wildlife and habitats of the world’s forests, home to the greatest diversity of wildlife on land, and offer a hopeful view on the future of forests and the people and animals who depend on them. Guests will begin the journey along a sky-high canopy path winding through the treetops and experience a whole new view of the zoo from the perspective of treetop-dwelling animals: Papua New Guinea’s Matschie’s tree kangaroos and Nepal’s red pandas.The experience will share the empowering story of the Papua New Guinea communities that have been partnering with the zoo’s Tree Kangaroo Conservation Program (TKCP) for 30 years to save one of the last intact cloud forests of the world. A flagship conservation program of Woodland Park Zoo, TKCP works with local communities in Papua New Guinea to save endangered Matschie’s tree kangaroos through education, health and livelihoods programming that benefits local communities.A fully accessible path will lead guests to the mid-level of the building where they will encounter New Zealand’s kea—clever parrots with investigative minds and busy beaks. The lower level is a showcase of African, Asian, and Australasian tree-dwelling reptiles and colorful amphibians—including four-eyed turtle, Chinese crocodile lizard, Fiji banded iguana, blue-legged mantella—and fish species. Forest Trailhead paths leading back out to the forest through the landscape highlight the critical role of the forest floor in the health of the ecosystem.LMN Architects and Sellen Construction were the design team and general contractor, respectively. Woodland Park Zoo is truly grateful to the donors and members of our community whose generous philanthropy made Forest Trailhead possible. The zoo thanks the nearly 7,800 donors whose confidence in the zoo's vision helped bring to life Forest Trailhead and its great promise to impact the future of forests.About red pandas Although red pandas share part of their name with giant pandas and may look a little like raccoons, they belong to a family of their own: Ailuridae. Red pandas are found across the Himalayas in Nepal, India, and Bhutan, and in mountainous regions of northern Myanmar and southern China. They live in high-altitude forests that have bamboo understories, including in some places where they overlap with giant pandas. Sadly, red pandas are classified as endangered due to habitat loss, poaching, and conflicts with dogs and people.Plant a tree for red pandasWoodland Park Zoo partners with the Red Panda Network whose multi-prong approach aims to conserve this flagship species in Nepal while creating sustainable livelihoods for people who share red panda habitat. Additionally, now through April 15, Woodland Park Zoo will partner with Red Panda Network to plant one tree for red pandas in Nepal for each new or upgraded Family Passport membership purchased. Members will be among the first to visit Forest Trailhead with exclusive preview days. Become a member at www.zoo.org/membership.Forest Trailhead will be free with zoo admission or membership. Use code: ZOOFUN for $10 off membership at zoo.org/membership and to get early access during the member preview days to see this incredible new home for red pandas!