---
date: 2026-05-19 22:31:22 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEi8AHJib1VzbqrI4CHUPcCR-toATnqELNDj4NnR81c_YidCXga9wXpiLoepECXJhHxQf9q1VdT-c28wUHGkDKZxg1ci8AE7N2PM3fY4yoR7zCfus8TfmSgY9iU9I5_frazNu9d0gqrwZ-b_hlE6sVfMQ-F3owjTiupa1nqLljQpetO3UM-krhnZqSsRvHI/s72-w640-h426-c/RS53802_2026_05_19%20Jamani%20baby-7.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/05/the-first-of-two-pregnant-gorillas.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooWelcome to the world, precious one!&nbsp;Jamani gently holds her newborn
  close.The community has been bubbling with excitement and anticipation over pregnancy
  news shared earlier this year of western lowland gorillas, Olympia and Jamani (jah-MAW-nee),
  due to give birth just days apart at...'
title: 'The first of two pregnant gorillas gives birth at the zoo: Jamani becomes
  second-time mom!'
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooWelcome to the world, precious one!&nbsp;Jamani gently holds her newborn close.The community has been bubbling with excitement and anticipation over pregnancy news shared earlier this year of western lowland gorillas, Olympia and Jamani (jah-MAW-nee), due to give birth just days apart at Woodland Park Zoo. The zoo is thrilled to announce the first baby has arrived!Jamani gave birth on May 18 at 5:50 a.m. (PDT) after a gestation period of eight and a half months. The sex of the baby has not yet been determined. This is the second baby for Jamani. Nadaya (nuh-DIE-yuh) is the first-time dad of the newborn and Olympia’s baby, which is due any day.According to Martin Ramirez, Curator of Mammalogy at Woodland Park Zoo, the first 72 hours of life are the most critical for a newborn gorilla. “We’re closely observing for signs that the infant is grasping strongly to Jamani with feet and hands, mom is soft vocalizing in response to her infant vocalizing, mom properly positions the infant that allows for nursing, and the infant is nursing within the first 48 hours,” said Ramirez. “For the next few days, we’ll keep the new mom and infant under a 24-hour watch.”Sleep tight, baby!Jamani enjoys a snack while cradling her newborn baby.Jamani and her baby are currently in the sleeping dens which are not viewable to visitors; this allows them to bond in a hushed, comfortable environment and for staff to closely monitor the new family. “We’re happy to report that Jamani so far is showing good maternal skills. She’s holding the baby close to her bosom, the baby is nursing, and mom and baby are bonding,” said Arden Robert, Animal Care Manager of Primates at Woodland Park Zoo. “As long as Jamani continues to show appropriate maternal care, we’ll remain hands off and do visual neonatal exams only. If there are any visible concerns, we will of course intervene.”Jamani will have the option to go into the outdoor habitat with her baby if she wishes, but it may be several days before visitors can see the new gorilla family. Temperatures need to be maintained at a minimum of 65˚F in the outdoor gorilla shelter and the habitat may be closed to visitors for the first few days they are outdoors. Stay tuned to Woodland Park Zoo’s social media and/or zoo.org/animals/zoobabies for viewing and other updates.Jamani and Olympia lived together at North Carolina Zoo where they each gave birth to a son in 2012 weeks apart and successfully raised them together. Jamani, Olympia and dad Nadaya (from Saint Louis Zoo) arrived at Woodland Park Zoo in 2022 to join adult female, Jumoke.Jamani and Olympia, before their pregnancies.With the addition of the new baby, Woodland Park Zoo currently cares for 12 western lowland gorillas living in two separate family groups. Group one: silverback (adult male gorilla) Kwame; adult females Nadiri, Akenji and Uzumma; juvenile females Yola and Zuna, daughters of Nadiri; and juvenile male, Kitoko, son of Kwame and Uzumma. Group two: silverback Nadaya; adult females Jumoke, Olympia and Jamani; and Jamani’s new baby.Help gorillasA portion of every visit and membership to Woodland Park Zoo supports saving wildlife in the Pacific Northwest and around the world, including protecting western lowland gorillas. Recycle old cell phones and other used handheld electronics through ECO-CELL at zoo.org/greenzoo to help preserve gorilla habitat. Adopt a gorilla: ZooParent adoptions help the zoo provide exceptional care for its gorillas and all its amazing animals: zoo.org/zooparent.