---
date: 2026-06-09 18:45:08 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEj6ySDq7M5l2WcDNpehRqlKcareXTydCFj8_3SYXCAQiNVQZjZzDUd8yWOMGp8vlPPs5C3hH56JbMTMQtVYNXAXDOG4l2WIiBtK8y2POrTAb22NHOoo204pZQVr5mtm3QYhatVX6zXN6AjKHGwBhZlIND6YeS3McUltgpeiwMt2Qubv6gW-hPAfz_wzFoA/s72-w426-h640-c/RS54011_2026_06_08%20gorillas-6.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/06/the-twist-you-didnt-see-coming-baby.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooJamani is caring for Olympia''s baby boy.&nbsp;Olympia is caring for Jamani''s
  baby boy.The birth and care of two western lowland gorillas at Woodland Park Zoo
  have been exciting and fluid with several twists and turns along the way. The newest
  twist: The...'
title: The twist you didn’t see coming... Baby gorillas are switched for maternal
  care! TLDR: Jamani is raising Olympia’s baby. Olympia is raising Jamani’s baby.
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsPhotos: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooJamani is caring for Olympia's baby boy.&nbsp;Olympia is caring for Jamani's baby boy.The birth and care of two western lowland gorillas at Woodland Park Zoo have been exciting and fluid with several twists and turns along the way. The newest twist: The newborns have been switched and each mother is caring for the other’s baby—intentionally.Jamani gave birth to a son on May 18 and Olympia delivered a son on May 24 via cesarean section, an extremely rare procedure on gorillas, due to complications that indicated a non-productive labor. With intentions of introducing Olympia’s son to her the following day, Jamani picked up the baby instead and stepped in to care for both babies while Olympia recovered from the procedure and remained nearby.Each gorilla baby now has a mama nursing and caring for them. All the adults and babies are doing well and are together as a family unit.&nbsp;While Jamani pulled double duty caring for two babies, her baby was not thriving. Therefore, the baby was medically evaluated by the zoo’s animal health team and a local neonatologist and an occupational therapist and stayed at the zoo’s hospital under round-the-clock veterinary care for a couple days as he learned how to accept bottle feedings. Meanwhile, Jamani continued to care for Olympia’s baby.Over the weekend, Jamani’s baby made great strides in nursing, hydration, and strength and was able to leave the hospital and be returned to his troop. However, instead of being returned to his mom, Jamani, he was given to a different mom—Olympia.Jamani has been caring for Olympia's baby since he was born by emergency C-section May 24.“Jamani already had Olympia’s baby in her care, but her own baby was struggling to nurse. Given that this infant had already been taken into human care, we were presented with a rare opportunity and made the pivotal decision to keep Olympia’s baby with Jamani and give Jamani’s baby to Olympia,” said Martin Ramirez, Curator of Mammalogy at Woodland Park Zoo.Over the weekend, the switch happened. On the first night, the moms were separated to make sure that Olympia and Jamani’s baby were bonding. Olympia and Jamani showed no signs of distress or jealousy and instead spent most of the night close to each other separated by the mesh door with the ability to see and hear each other.Olympia gazes down at the little baby she is nursing and holding gently in her arms.&nbsp;“Jamani has been doing an incredible job feeding and caring for Olympia’s baby. At the same time, Olympia is also very maternal but is more inclined to bring a baby to the protective mesh to allow bottle-feeding from the gorilla keepers if needed, making her a great match for Jamani’s growing baby. Olympia is also having great nursing success. Everyone gets to remain close in the same family group, both moms have an infant to care for, and Olympia and Jamani have become foster moms to each other’s babies,” added Ramirez.Both gorilla moms are caring for and nursing a baby and neither is showing signs of interest in the baby the other one is caring for.The moms and babies are back with their troop and are now together as one family. “Olympia and Jamani have been sticking close together, and neither is showing any signs of interest in the other’s baby. We think they are both relieved to each have a baby in their care. We’re so pleased that both babies are doing great! Both moms are nursing and the infants are getting stronger each day,” said Arden Robert, Animal Care Manager of Primates at Woodland Park Zoo.The gorillas will have access to their outdoor habitat, which may be intermittently closed to guests to give the new moms and babies some space and time.Olympia is more inclined to bring a baby to the protective mesh to allow bottle-feeding from the gorilla keepers if needed, making her a great match for Jamani’s growing baby.Olympia and Jamani have a shared history. They both gave birth for the first time in 2012 to sons just weeks apart while living together at North Carolina Zoo and successfully raised them together.The new infants represent the first offspring for dad Nadaya. In addition to dad and the newborns, Olympia and Jamani’s family troop also includes adult female Jumoke. Olympia, Jamani and Nadaya arrived at Woodland Park Zoo in 2022.Handsome silverback, Nadaya, is the father of both babies.With the addition of the two newborns, Woodland Park Zoo currently cares for 13 western lowland gorillas living in two separate family groups. Stay tuned to Woodland Park Zoo’s social media and/or zoo.org/animals/zoobabies for viewing and other updates.