---
date: 2026-02-05 18:06:00 -0000
image: https://blogger.googleusercontent.com/img/b/R29vZ2xl/AVvXsEhpMN-shjtbIWhaR_7I9gRauYdCdfv4KLeHV9jpankf2RUmKtY6DqgU23GZ2nX0nL0omIBz2pUpvIsL05ZrRFNTpCs9A0HVL28mR5gDAZfbRLcsjOEIZi7ED26noaOsCvIo0wcFRbGT3n1ArKOQkTUACyTeYjqNkCsdp2Tc2buVfBBaqzGIYV9iFHSNIqw/s72-w640-h426-c/RS52241_2025_12%20misc-1_ohi.jpg
layout: story
source_feed: https://feeds.feedburner.com/WoodlandParkZBlog
source_name: Woodland Park Zoo Blog
source_url: https://blog.zoo.org/2026/02/zoos-farm-transforms-with-wild.html
summary: 'Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsLorikeets and lories are brilliantly
  colored parrots that primarily eat pollen and nectar. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland
  Park ZooImagine ... a dazzling array of squawking lorikeets taking flight in search
  of nectar. Curious goats leaning in for a scratch. Aldabra giant tortoises walking
  slowly, steadily toward you....'
title: 'Zoo’s farm transforms with Wild Encounters. Coming soon: Lorikeet Landing,
  Aldabra giant tortoises and more!'
---

Posted by Gigi Allianic, CommunicationsLorikeets and lories are brilliantly colored parrots that primarily eat pollen and nectar. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooImagine ... a dazzling array of squawking lorikeets taking flight in search of nectar. Curious goats leaning in for a scratch. Aldabra giant tortoises walking slowly, steadily toward you. These unforgettable moments will come to life in Wild Encounters, where Woodland Park Zoo’s Family Farm will transform into a new and refreshed hub for up-close animal experiences for guests of all ages.&nbsp;Phase one to open this summer.Located at the site of the current Family Farm, Wild Encounters will be designed around the concept, where everyone cares like a keeper. The space will be reimagined to give guests of all ages hands-on and up-close experiences with animals and animal care activities.“Our animal keepers are caretakers for wildlife, and everyone who feels a connection with animals can be inspired to care in their own ways too. Here we have an area that is great for making up-close connections but is outdated and in need of major upgrades,” said Dr. Luis Neves, Senior Director of Animal Care at Woodland Park Zoo. “With a focus on refreshing the aging space with all new experiences and designing special programming, Wild Encounters will help children and families forge social and emotional connections with animals—important stepping stones to fostering empathy for all living things.”Photo by&nbsp;Trevor McKinnon&nbsp;on&nbsp;UnsplashLorikeet LandingRainbows in flight! Coming this spring, the brand-new Lorikeet Landing paid experience will represent phase one of Wild Encounters and will be home to brilliantly colored lorikeets and lories, medium-sized arboreal parrots native to the Indo-Pacific region. Unique from other parrot species which eat mostly nuts and seeds, these colorful parrots have a brush-like tongue that enables them to dine on pollen and nectar. In the walk-through aviary, guests will have the opportunity to present a small cup of nectar for an up-close and memorable experience with these chattering parrots that are strictly arboreal. Other bird species that can peacefully coexist will also live in the aviary such as ground-dwelling pigeons and kookaburras.Meet the new Aldabra tortoises! Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooAldabra Giant TortoisesWild Encounters will introduce a first-time species to the zoo: Aldabra giant tortoises, one of the world's largest land tortoises! The new tortoises, both females, will make their new turf in Wild Encounters where the cold-blooded reptiles will have access to an indoor enclosure to warm up or cool down and an outdoor yard for basking and exercising with their thick, cylindrical sturdy legs these giant tortoises are known for. The new tortoises will be viewable starting in early 2026 once construction of their home is completed.Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooThe pair of tortoises, 23-year-old Mary and 15-year-old Elise, were rescued and join Woodland Park Zoo thanks to longtime friends, Madeline and Geoff Haydon. “We learned there was a private facility looking for a new home for their Aldabra tortoises. These gentle giants, who once were hunted to near extinction and are a Vulnerable species, needed a suitable and knowledgeable new home that could commit to them for the rest of their long and lengthy lives,” said Madeline Haydon. “We were happy to facilitate this rescue and give them the opportunity to become ambassador animals for Woodland Park Zoo where they can encourage curiosity, compassion and respect for wildlife for all who may never get a chance to visit them in their native habitat of Aldabra Island in the Seychelles.”The goats—a zoo favorite—will move to a different part of the Farm with better and more flexible indoor and outdoor spaces. Photo: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooMore to Explore!The free (no additional fee) animal experience, formerly known as the Contact Area, has long been a favorite spot where the tiniest and growing kids can get up close and personal with goats, sheep and other domestic farm animals. This experience will move to the former cow and donkey area adjacent to the north barn and will undergo major improvements to provide better and more flexible indoor and outdoor spaces for the animals. Guests will enjoy immersive experiences that give them the opportunity to care for and learn about the animals while also giving animals the choice and control to leave if they need a break. The zoo's existing and dynamic herd of goats will move into the new area first; in the future other new species may be added such as alpaca and non-domestic animals.Phase two of Wild Encounters is scheduled to open in 2027. Currently, the zoo’s ambassador animals can be seen by the public during on-ground programming only and live in support areas that are not viewable to guests. The phase two renovation will bring the ambassador animals program center stage with flexible, viewable habitats to support a rotating cast of ambassador animals that will bring guests closer than ever to a variety of species. On any given day, guests may see different animals in these habitats; animal keepers will have a dedicated space to introduce guests to individual animals and share expertise on their diet, care and behavior. In this refreshed space, guests will learn how to practice caring behaviors for animals, both at the zoo and at home, helping to forge social and emotional connections and actions to support wildlife in the Pacific Northwest and around the world.Woodland Park Zoo aspires to complete fundraising for Wild Encounters by December 31, 2026. Charitable contributions to the project will help the zoo renovate aging facilities for optimal ambassador animal wellbeing and bring new, up-close empathy building experiences to the community in 2027. To learn more about supporting Wild Encounters, visit: give.zoo.org/wildencountersPhoto: Jeremy Dwyer-Lindgren/Woodland Park ZooAdvancing Conservation through Empathy for Wildlife®&nbsp;Woodland Park Zoo is widely recognized as a leader in advancing empathy learnings and best practices within the zoo and aquarium community. At the heart of this effort is the Advancing Conservation through Empathy (ACE) for Wildlife™ Network, which began with 20 founding AZA-accredited partners in Alaska, Idaho, Minnesota, Montana, North Dakota, Washington and Wisconsin. The Network has since expanded to 27 network partner organizations and has grown to include more than 1,000 participating professionals across five continents. Founded and led by Woodland Park Zoo, the ACE for Wildlife Network facilitates professional collaboration and catalyzes accredited zoos and aquariums’ capacities to share knowledge, experiences, and data to drive conservation action through fostering empathy for animals and the environment that sustains them.